# Real-Time Object Detection with YOLO

This project implements a real-time object detection system using YOLOv8 models. The system captures video from an IP camera, performs object detection, and displays the video with annotated detections.

## Requirements

- Python 3.7+
- OpenCV
- PyTorch
- Ultralytics YOLO

## Installation

1. Clone the repository:

    bash
    git clone https://github.com/yourusername/real-time-object-detection.git
    cd real-time-object-detection
    

2. Create a virtual environment and install the dependencies:

    bash
    python -m venv venv
    source venv/bin/activate  # On Windows use `venv\Scripts\activate`
    pip install -r requirements.txt
    

3. Download the YOLO models and place them in the appropriate folder.

## Usage

In order to use the codes on a correct way, it is necesary to save the model on the correct rute, and specify the path
of the model on the scripts.

Aditionally, it is necesary to download the following versions of the following imports:
torch                        2.3.0
opencv-python                4.9.0
ultralytics                  8.2.25
matplotlib                   3.9.0

It is better to use enviroments like Anaconda.

Aditionally, there are two scripts, the first one, named YOLOv8.ipynb, trains a new model using YOLOv8m, while the second
one, named model_test.ipynb, test the model generated by the first code, or the model given on the repository.

## Images of the dataset
The images could not be uploaded in the git, however, they are uploaded on the following drive:
https://www.google.com/url?q=https%3A%2F%2Fdrive.google.com%2Fdrive%2Ffolders%2F1ZOu34wuXdjAd3WT8RJhh1meHvAPRWpgB%3Fusp%3Dsharing

It is necesary to upload the file to Roboflow in order to rebalance the dataset to have 75% Training, 15% Validation and 10% Testing.

## EDA
The third script is the EDA, also known as Exploratory Data Analysis. This script analyses the images and explains how it is doing that